---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "powerplatform_environments Data Source - Power Platform"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Fetches the list of environments in a tenant.  See Environments overview https://learn.microsoft.com/power-platform/admin/environments-overview for more information.
---

# powerplatform_environments (Data Source)

Fetches the list of environments in a tenant.  See [Environments overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/power-platform/admin/environments-overview) for more information.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    powerplatform = {
      source = "microsoft/power-platform"
    }
  }
}

provider "powerplatform" {
  use_cli = true
}

data "powerplatform_environments" "all_environments" {}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `environments` (Attributes List) List of environments (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--environments))

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.


<a id="nestedatt--environments"></a>
### Nested Schema for `environments`

Optional:

- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--environments--timeouts))

Read-Only:

- `allow_bing_search` (Boolean) Allow Bing search in the environment
- `allow_moving_data_across_regions` (Boolean) Allow moving data across regions
- `azure_region` (String) Azure region of the environment (westeurope, eastus etc.). Can be queried using the `powerplatform_locations` data source.
- `billing_policy_id` (String) Billing policy id (guid) for pay-as-you-go environments using Azure subscription billing
- `cadence` (String) Cadence of updates for the environment (Frequent, Moderate)
- `dataverse` (Attributes) Dataverse environment details (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--environments--dataverse))
- `description` (String) Description
- `display_name` (String) Display name
- `enterprise_policies` (Attributes Set) Enterprise policies for the environment. See [Enterprise policies](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/enterprise-policies) for more details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--environments--enterprise_policies))
- `environment_group_id` (String) Environment group id (guid) that the environment belongs to. Empty guid `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000` is considered as no environment group.
- `environment_type` (String) Type of the environment (Sandbox, Production etc.)
- `id` (String) Environment id (guid)
- `location` (String) Location of the environment (europe, unitedstates etc.). Can be queried using the `powerplatform_locations` data source.
- `owner_id` (String) Entra ID  user id (guid) of the environment owner when creating developer environment
- `release_cycle` (String) Gives you the ability to create environments that are updated first. This allows you to experience and validate scenarios that are important to you before any updates reach your business-critical applications. See [more](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/early-release).

<a id="nestedatt--environments--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `environments.timeouts`


<a id="nestedatt--environments--dataverse"></a>
### Nested Schema for `environments.dataverse`

Read-Only:

- `administration_mode_enabled` (Boolean) Select to enable administration mode for the environment. See [Admin mode](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/admin-mode) for more information.
- `background_operation_enabled` (Boolean) Background operation status for the environment. See [Admin mode](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/admin-mode) for more information.
- `currency_code` (String) Currency name (EUR, USE, GBP etc.)
- `domain` (String) Domain name of the environment
- `language_code` (Number) Language LCID (integer)
- `linked_app_id` (String) Linked app id (guid)
- `linked_app_type` (String) Type of the linked app (Internal, External etc.)
- `linked_app_url` (String) URL of the linked D365 app
- `organization_id` (String) Organization id (guid)
- `security_group_id` (String) Security group id (guid)
- `template_metadata` (String) Additional D365 environment template metadata (if any)
- `templates` (List of String) The selected instance provisioning template (if any). See [ERP-based template](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/unified-experience/tutorial-deploy-new-environment-with-erp-template?tabs=PPAC) for more information.
- `unique_name` (String) Unique name of the Dataverse environment
- `url` (String) Url of the environment
- `version` (String) Version of the environment


<a id="nestedatt--environments--enterprise_policies"></a>
### Nested Schema for `environments.enterprise_policies`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Id (guid)
- `location` (String) Location of the policy
- `status` (String) Link status of the policy
- `system_id` (String) System id (guid)
- `type` (String) Type of the policy according to [schema definition](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.powerplatform/enterprisepolicies?pivots=deployment-language-terraform#enterprisepolicies-2)
