# Developer Guide

If you want to contribute to this project, you can use the devcontainer feature in Visual Studio Code to create a consistent and isolated development environment. A devcontainer is a Docker container that has all the tools and dependencies needed to work with the codebase. You can open any folder inside the container and use VS Code’s full feature set, including IntelliSense, code navigation, debugging, and extensions.

## Developer Requirements

To use the devcontainer in this repo, you need to have the following prerequisites:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) installed in VS Code.

## Opening the Devcontainer
Once you have the prerequisites, you can follow these steps to open the repo in a devcontainer:

1. Clone or fork this repo to your local machine.
1. Open VS Code and press F1 to open the command palette. Type “Remote-Containers: Open Folder in Container…” and select it.
1. Browse to the folder where you cloned or forked the repo and click “Open”.
1. VS Code will reload and start building the devcontainer image. This may take a few minutes depending on your network speed and the size of the image.
1. When the devcontainer is ready, you will see “Dev Container: Power Platform Terraform Provider Development” in the lower left corner of the VS Code status bar. You can also open a new terminal (Ctrl+Shift+`) and see that you are inside the container.
1. You can now edit, run, debug, and test the code as if you were on your local machine. Any changes you make will be reflected in the container and in your local file system.

For more information about devcontainers, you can check out the [devcontainer documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers).

## Power Platform Prerequisites

### Tenant

Developers should have access to a tenant where they can create and delete Power Platform environments and other resources.

TODO: more information about tenant and permissions needed by the dev user

### Credentials

See the [provider's user documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/terraform-provider-power-platform#authentication) on getting a service principal or user account credentials configured.

### Environment Variables

Use environement variables to configure the provider to use your chosen credentials.  For example:

```bash
export POWER_PLATFORM_USERNAME=<username>
export POWER_PLATFORM_PASSWORD=<password>
export POWER_PLATFORM_HOST=<api url>

```

TODO: Environment variables for service principal

TODO: Should probably move environment variable information into user documentation and just reference it from here

## Running Provider locally in VSCode (linux)

Open bash terminal inside VS Code and execute the following commands:

```bash
# you should already be in this directory, but just in case
cd /workspaces/terraform-provider-power-platform

# Build and install the provider's binary locally
make install

# Navigate to a folder that contains *.tf files and run below
cd examples/data-sources/powerplatform_environments

# Run terraform to validate that provider is functioning
terraform plan
```

Note: You cannot run `terraform init` when using dev overrides. `terraform init` will validate the versions and provider source, while `terraform plan` will skip those validations when `dev overrides` is part of your config.

## Debugging provider in VSCode

1. Open VSCode with the root folder as the parent of this ReadMe
1. Click On Run and Debug (F5)
1. Copy `TF_REATTACH_PROVIDERS` value in the Debug Console
1. Run `export TF_REATTACH_PROVIDERS=<value>` with the value copied from the above step
1. Add breakpoints
1. `cd` to a parent folder where main.tf exists
1. Run `terraform apply`

## Running Acceptance Tests

To run all acceptance tests

```bash
make acctest
```


To run single acceptance test
```bash 
TF_ACC=1 go test -v ./... -run TestAcc<test_name>
```

## Running Unit Tests

To run all unit tests 

```bash
make unittest
```

To run single unit test 
```bash 
TF_ACC=0 go test -v ./... -run TestUnit<test_name>
```

## Adding Dependencies

This provider uses [Go modules](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules).
Please see the Go documentation for the most up to date information about using Go modules.

To add a new dependency `github.com/author/dependency` to your Terraform provider:

```sh
go get github.com/author/dependency
make deps
```

## Updating Dependencies

Open a terminal in your devcontainer and type

```sh
make deps
```

## Updating Documentation

User documentation markdown files in [/docs](/docs/) are auto-generated by the [terraform plugin docs tool](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs).

Do not manually edit the markdown files in [/docs](/docs/). If you need to edit documentation edit the following sources:
- schema information in the provider, resource, and data-source golang files that are in [/internal](/internal/)
- [template files](templates/)

```sh
make userdocs
```

User documentation is temporarily served on GitHub Pages which requires the [pages.yml GitHub workflow](/.github/workflows/pages.yml) to transform /docs markdown files into a static website.  Once this provider is published to the Terraform registry, documentation will be hosted on the registry instead. 

## Pull Request Checklist

PRs for new resources or data sources are expected to meeting the following criteria:

- production quality implementation of the resource or datasource in [/internal](/internal/)
- unit tests and acceptance tests for your contribution in [/internal](/internal/).  Tests should pass and provide >90% coverage of your contribution
- example code for your contribution in [/examples](/examples/)
- updated user documentation for your contribution in [/internal](/internal/) and/or [/templates](/templates/)
- [updated auto-generated documentation](#updating-documentation) in [/docs](/docs/). (Don't manually edit [/docs](/docs/) or your updates will be overwritten)
- a well written PR description about the feature you're adding
